These definitions from the "Appendix A, Definitions" tab of the [Summary Tables
file for 2020](https://www2.census.gov/programs-surveys/school-finances/tables/2020/secondary-education-finance/elsec20_sumtables.xls)

A. Definitions: Fiscal Year 2020

Capital Outlay. Direct expenditure for construction of buildings, roads, and
other improvements undertaken either on a contractual basis by private
contractors or through a government’s own staff (i.e., force account); for
purchases of equipment, land, and existing structures; and for payments on
capital leases. Includes amounts for additions, replacements, and major
alterations to fixed works and structures. However, expenditure for maintenance
and repairs to such works and structures is classified as current spending.

Cash and Deposits. Cash on hand and on deposit, including any savings and other
time deposits, as well as demand deposits.

Cash and Security Holdings. Cash, deposits, and government and private
securities (bonds, notes, stocks, mortgages, etc.) except holdings of agency
and private trust funds. Does not include interfund loans, receivables, and the
value of real property and other fixed assets.

Construction. Production of fixed works and structures and additions,
replacements, and major alterations thereto, including planning and design of
specific projects, site improvements, and provision of equipment and facilities
that are integral parts of a structure. Includes both construction undertaken
either on a contractual basis by private contractors or through a government’s
own staff (i.e., force account).

Contributions from Parent Government. Tax receipts and other amounts
appropriated by a parent government and transferred to its dependent school
system. Excludes intergovernmental revenue, current charges, and miscellaneous
general revenue.

Current Charges. Amounts received from the public for performance of specific
services benefitting the person charged and from sales of commodities and
services. Includes school lunch sales (gross), tuition paid by individuals,
revenue from the sale and rental of textbooks, transportation fees, and
receipts from centrally administered student activity funds. Excludes amounts
received from other governments and interfund transfers.

Current Operation. Direct expenditure for salaries, employee benefits,
purchased professional and technical services, purchased property and other
services, and supplies. It includes gross school system expenditure for
instruction, support services, and noninstructional functions. It excludes
expenditure for debt service, capital outlay, and reimbursement to other
governments (including other school systems). Also excluded are payments made
on behalf of the school system by other governments including employee
retirement payments made by state governments to state retirement funds and to
social security. Employer contributions made by those few school systems that
have their own retirement systems (such as the Chicago Board of Education and
the Denver Public School System) into their own retirement funds are excluded.
Current operation expenditure is a standard classification item used in all
Census Bureau government finance reports.

Current Spending. Comprises current operation expenditure (as defined above),
payments made by the state government on behalf of school systems, and
transfers made by school systems into their own retirement funds. This
classification is used only in Census Bureau education reports in an effort to
provide statistics for users who wish to make interstate comparisons. It is not
used in other government finance reports to avoid double counting expenditure
between levels of government and funds. While expenditure made by the state
government on behalf of the school systems is available on a state aggregate
basis, it is frequently not available for each school system in given states.
Therefore, these payments are included under current spending in the tables
which display state totals and are often estimated for the local school systems
to be included in the tables which display individual school units. Appendix B
identifies this anomaly on a state-by-state basis.

Debt. Short-and long-term credit obligations of a school system or that portion
of a parent government’s credit obligations devoted to a dependent system.
Excludes non interest-bearing short-term obligations, interfund obligations,
amounts owed in a trust or agency capacity, leases, advances, and contingent
loans from other governments, and rights of individuals to benefits from school
system employee-retirement funds.

Debt Outstanding at the End of Fiscal Year. All debt obligations remaining
unpaid at the end of the fiscal year.

Elementary-Secondary Education. Prekindergarten through twelfth grade regular,
special, and vocational education, as well as cocurricular, community service,
and adult education programs provided by a public school system. The financial
activities of these systems for all instruction, support service, and
noninstructional activities are included in this category.

Employee Benefit Expenditure. Amounts paid by the school system for fringe
benefits. These amounts are not included in salaries and wages paid directly to
employees. Includes contributions on behalf of employees for retirement
coverage, social security, group health and life insurance, tuition
reimbursement, worker's compensation, and unemployment compensation.

Enrollment. Count of pupils on pupil rolls in the fall of the school system's
fiscal year for which data are shown.

Equipment. Apparatus, furnishings, motor vehicles, office machines, and the
like having an expected life of more than five years. Equipment expenditure
consists only of amounts for purchase of equipment, including both additional
equipment and replacements. Expenditure for facilities that are integral parts
of structures is classified as expenditure for construction or for purchase of
land and existing structures.

Expenditure. All amounts of money paid out by a school system – net of
recoveries and other correcting transactions – other than for retirement of
debt, purchase of securities, extension of loans, and agency transactions. Note
that expenditure includes only external transactions of a school system and
excludes noncash transactions, such as the provision of perquisites or other
payments in-kind.

Federal Aid – Direct. Aid from project grants for programs such as Impact Aid,
Indian, Native Hawaiian, and Alaska Native Education, the Small, Rural School
Achievement Program, Head Start, Follow Through, Magnet Schools, Dropout
Demonstration Assistance, and Gifted and Talented.

Impact Aid. Revenue provided under Title VII of the Elementary and Secondary
Education Act (ESEA) as reauthorized by the Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA)
to assist in the construction and operation of schools in areas affected by
federal activities.

Federal Aid Distributed by State Governments. Aid from formula grants
distributed through state government agencies. Includes revenue from such
programs as:

Child Nutrition Programs. Revenues from school meal and child nutrition
programs authorized under the Child Nutrition Act. Includes federal
reimbursement revenues provided under the National School Lunch Act, School
Breakfast Program, Special Milk Program, a la carte sales, etc. Excludes the
value of donated commodities.

Special Education Programs. Revenue awarded under the Individuals with
Disabilities Act (IDEA). Includes formula grants authorized in Part B, sections
611 and 619 of this legislation, but excludes project grants authorized in Part
C and Part D. Revenue from Part C is included in Other Federal Aid Distributed
by the State. Revenue from Part D is included in Federal Aid—Direct.

Title I Programs. Revenue authorized by Title I of the Elementary and Secondary
Education Act (ESEA) as reauthorized by the Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA).
Includes basic, concentration, targeted, and education finance incentive
grants. Also includes grants for the education of migratory children, and
grants for prevention and intervention programs for neglected, delinquent, or
at-risk children.

Vocational Programs. Revenue for career and technical education programs.
Includes formula grants authorized by section 131 of the Carl D. Perkins
Vocational Career and Technical Education Act. Also includes revenue from Title
II (Basic Grants) and Title III-E (Tech-Prep Education).

Other Federal Aid Distributed by the State. Includes revenue from other formula
grant programs distributed through state governments, such as Supporting
Effective Instruction grants authorized by Title II-A of the Elementary and
Secondary Education Act, Student Support and Academic Enrichment Grants
authorized by Title IV-A, Subpart 1, Section 4105 of the Elementary and
Secondary Education Act, 21st Century Community Learning Center programs
authorized by Title IV-B of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, Rural
and Low-Income School Program grants authorized by Title V-B, Subpart 2 of the
Elementary and Secondary Education Act, English Language Acquisition State
Grants authorized by Title III-A of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act,
and the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act.

Nonspecified Federal Aid Distributed by the State. Federal revenue amounts that
pertain to more than one of the above categories, but which reporting units
could not provide distinct amounts into these categories. This revenue is
included in “nonspecified” instead of “other.”

Fiscal Year. The 12-month period at the end of which the school district
determines its financial condition and the results of its operations and closes
its books.

Fixed Charges. Charges of a generally recurrent nature which are not readily
allocable to another function. Such charges include employee benefits,
retirement and insurance programs, and worker’s compensation.

Instruction Expenditure. Relates to the instruction function (Function 1000)
defined in “Financial Accounting for Local and State School Systems,” National
Center for Education Statistics, 2014. Instruction presented under the current
operation or current spending headings includes payments from all funds for
salaries, employee benefits (paid by school system only if under “current
operation” or paid by both school and state if under “current spending”),
supplies, materials, and contractual services. It excludes capital outlay, debt
service, and interfund transfers. Instruction covers regular, special, and
vocational programs offered in both the regular school year and summer school.
It excludes instructional, student, and other support activities, as well as
adult education, community services, and student enterprise activities.

Instructional Equipment. Expenditure for all equipment recorded by school
systems in general or operating funds under the “instruction” function.

Interest Earnings. Interest earned on deposits and securities including amounts
for accrued interest on investment securities sold. However, receipts for
accrued interest on bonds issued are classified as offsets to interest
expenditure. Note that interest earnings shown under elementary-secondary
revenue do not include earnings on assets of employee-retirement systems.

Interest Expenditure. Amounts paid for use of borrowed money.

Long-Term Debt. Debt payable more than one year after date of issue.

Long-Term Debt Issued. The par value of long-term debt obligations incurred
during the fiscal period concerned, including funding and refunding
obligations. Debt obligations authorized but not actually incurred during the
fiscal period are not included.

Long-Term Debt Retired. The par value of long-term debt obligations liquidated
by repayment or exchange, including debt retired by refunding operations.

Nonelementary-Secondary Programs. Comprises expenditure by a school district
for the operation of community services (e.g., swimming pools, public
libraries, programs for the elderly, and child care centers); adult education
classes; and other activities not related to elementary-secondary education,
such as community college programs.

Other Current Spending. Current spending for other than elementary-secondary
education instruction and support services activities. Included in this
category are food services, enterprise operations, community services, and
adult education expenditure.

Payments to Other Governments. Payments made to states, counties, cities, and
special district school housing authorities including repayment of loans and
debt service payments to entities that incur debt instead of the school system.
“Payments to Other School Systems” is included in this category in the tables
that display individual school systems but excluded (to avoid double counting)
in the state aggregate tables.

Payments to Other School Systems. Payments to in-state and out-of-state public
school systems for tuition, transportation, data processing, or other purchased
services. These amounts are excluded from state aggregate tables but included
in “Payments to Other Governments” in the individual unit tables.

Property Taxes. Taxes conditioned on ownership of property and measured by its
value. Includes general property taxes relating to property as a whole, taxed
at a single rate or at classified rates according to the class of property.
Property refers to real property (e.g., land and structures), as well as
personal property. Personal property can be either tangible (e.g., automobiles
and boats) or intangible (e.g., bank accounts and stocks and bonds).

Public School Systems. Includes independent school district governments and
dependent school systems. Independent school district governments are organized
local entities providing public elementary, secondary, special, and
vocational-technical education which, under the law, have sufficient
administrative and fiscal autonomy to qualify as governments. Dependent school
systems lack sufficient autonomy to be counted as separate governments and are
classified as dependent agencies of some other government – a county,
municipality, township, or state government.

Purchase of Land and Existing Structures. Expenditure for the acquisition of
land and existing buildings including purchases of rights-of-way, payments on
capital leases, title searches, and similar activities associated with real
property purchase transactions.

Revenue. All amounts of money received by a school system from external sources
– net of refunds and other correcting transactions – other than from issuance
of debt, liquidation of investments, or as agency and private trust
transactions. Note that revenue excludes noncash transactions, such as receipt
of services, commodities, or other “receipts in-kind.”

Salaries and Wages. Amounts paid for compensation of school system officers and
employees. Consists of gross compensation before deductions for withheld taxes,
retirement contributions, or other purposes.

School Lunch Charges. Gross collections from cafeteria sales to children and
adults.

Short-Term Debt. Interest-bearing debt payable within one year from date of
issue, such as bond anticipation notes, bank loans, and tax anticipation notes
and warrants. Includes obligations having no fixed maturity date if payable
from a tax levied for collection in the year of their issuance.

State Aid. State revenue paid to the school system for any purpose, restricted
or unrestricted, including the following:

Capital Outlay/Debt Service. Revenue paid for school construction and building
aid including amounts to help the school systems pay for servicing debt.

Compensatory Programs. Revenue for “at risk” or other economically
disadvantaged students including migratory children. Also includes monies from
state programs directed toward the attainment of basic skills and categorical
education excellence and quality education programs that provide more than
staff enhancements – such as materials, resource centers, and equipment.

General Formula Assistance. Revenue from general noncategorical state
assistance programs such as foundation, minimum or basic formula support,
apportionment, equalization, flat or block grants, and state public school fund
distributions. This category also includes revenue dedicated from major state
taxes, such as income and sales taxes.

Payments on Behalf of Local Education Agency (LEA). State payments that benefit
school systems but are not paid directly to school systems. Includes amounts
transferred into state teacher or public employee retirement funds, as well as
into funds for other kinds of employee benefits, such as group health, life,
and unemployment compensation. This category also includes state payments for
textbooks, school buses, and telecommunications that are provided to public
school systems.

Special Education Programs. Revenue for the education of physically and
mentally handicapped students.

Staff Improvement Programs. Revenue for programs designed to improve the
quantity and quality of school system staff. Examples include programs for
additional teacher units, teacher benefits such as retirement and social
security contributions paid directly to the school system, mentor teachers,
teacher induction, staff development contracts and stipends, career ladder
contracts, in-service training, health insurance, principal leadership, teacher
quality contracts, and salaries for specific types of instructional and support
staff.

Transportation Programs. Payments for various state transportation aid
programs, such as those that compensate the school system for part of its
transportation expense and those that provide reimbursement for transportation
salaries or school bus purchase.

Vocational Programs. Revenue for state vocational education assistance programs
including career education programs.

Other State Aid. All other state revenue that is paid directly to the school
systems including funds for bilingual education, gifted and talented programs,
food services, debt services, instructional materials, textbooks, computer
equipment, library resources, guidance and psychological services, driver
education, energy conservation, enrollment increases and losses, health,
alcohol and drug abuse, AIDS, child abuse, summer school, prekindergarten and
early childhood, adult education (excluding vocational), desegregation, private
schools, safety and law enforcement, and community services. In cases where
these programs are covered under a state government's general formula
assistance program, revenue will be shown under “general formula assistance”
instead of under this category.

Nonspecified State Aid. State revenue amounts that pertain to more than one of
the above categories but which reporting units could not provide distinct
amounts into these categories. This revenue is included in “nonspecified”
instead of “other.”

Support Services Expenditure. Relates to support services functions (Function
2000) defined in “Financial Accounting for Local and State School Systems,”
National Center for Education Statistics, 2014. Support services presented
under the current operation or current spending headings include payments from
all funds for salaries, employee benefits (paid by school system only if under
“current operation” or paid by both school and state if under “current
spending”), supplies, materials, and contractual services. It excludes capital
outlay, debt service, and interfund transfers. It includes expenditure for the
following functions:

General Administration. (Function 2300) Expenditure for board of education and
executive administration (office of the superintendent) services.

Instructional Staff Support. (Function 2200) Expenditure for supervision of
instruction service improvements, curriculum development, instructional staff
training, and media, library, audiovisual, television, and computer-assisted
instruction services.

Operation and Maintenance of Plant. (Function 2600) Expenditure for building
services (heating, electricity, air conditioning, property insurance), care and
upkeep of grounds and equipment, nonstudent transportation vehicle operation
and maintenance, and security services.

Pupil Support Services. (Function 2100) Expenditure for attendance
record-keeping, social work, student accounting, counseling, student appraisal,
record maintenance, and placement services. This category also includes
medical, dental, nursing, psychological, and speech services.

Pupil Transportation Services. (Function 2700) Expenditure for the
transportation of public school students including vehicle operation,
monitoring riders, and vehicle servicing and maintenance.

School Administration. (Function 2400) Expenditure for the office of principal
services.

Other Support Services. Expenditure for central/business support (Function
2500) and other support (Function 2900) services. Business support services
include payments for fiscal services (budgeting, receiving and disbursing
funds, payroll, internal auditing, and accounting), purchasing, warehousing,
supply distribution, printing, publishing, and duplicating services. Central
support services include planning, research, development, and evaluation
services. They also include information services, staff services (recruitment,
staff accounting, noninstructional in-service training, staff health services),
and data processing services.

Nonspecified Support Services. Expenditure that pertains to more than one of
the above categories. In some cases, reporting units could not provide distinct
expenditure amounts for each support services category. This expenditure is
included in “nonspecified” instead of “other support services.”

Taxes. Compulsory contributions exacted by a school system for public purposes,
except employee and employer assessments for retirement and social insurance
purposes, which are classified as insurance trust revenue. All tax revenue is
classified as general revenue and comprises amounts received (including
interest and penalties but excluding protested amounts and refunds) from all
taxes imposed by a government. Note that school system tax revenue excludes any
amounts from shares of state-imposed-and-collected taxes, which are classified
as intergovernmental revenue.
